---
title: "ass'n stuff"
---

# Segments/Features of Laplace
Laplace is segmented in multiple parts, but in summary it is a learning & research (and tools) content aggregator and platform for hackathons (also to develop courses) and consulting, and visualizing and building an expert graph of knowledge at the Ledgerback Frontier. 

I expect Laplace to eventually become a social network of sorts. 

Laplace's segments are:

1. Aggregator
3. Platform 
4. Expert Graph (and tools for use on the graph)

For the MVP of Laplace, I am going to make a static site with Hugo which will hopefully show off what I am thinking because I am terrible at putting it into words at the moment. 

The tools I expect to come out of Laplace are an expert graph, recommender system, and an adaptive learning system. 

Hopefully, Laplace can help the Association get [Expertise Network Effects (NfX)](https://www.nfx.com/post/14th-network-effect-expertise/) `maybe just for the tools we like?`?

# MVP

I will be working on adding search functionality to the static site. 

I have added comments already with Commento and I am using Formspree for the forms. 

Other than adding search functionality, I will be adding content to the site (finally!) and getting it up on Ledgerback's Github. 

Though, this is 1 - 2 months late, I should have it up by the end of November 2021. 

I also really like this story of [Upsolve's](https://www.ffwd.org/playbook/build-a-tech-for-good-product/) journey from Idea to MVP to app because it puts into perspecive the need to start lean and use existing tools to test ideas before going hard in developing (*and coding*) a web or mobile app. 

I will be learning Vue while I am putting the static site up so that if it does become popular, I can be ready to make it more interactive.  And even before working on a more interactive web app, I hope to run a crowdfund to support Laplace's development (hopefully the MVP is convincing enough for most people).


# Cross-pollinating the DWeb

I saw this tweet by [vintro.eth](https://twitter.com/vintrotweets/status/1455384542827761667) and I found it to be great because  [vintro.eth](https://twitter.com/vintrotweets/status/1455384542827761667) is a Web3 person diving into spaced repetition systems (SRSs) `I still need to get one` and showing the potential for connecting the Tools for Thought (TfT) space with Web3. 

Additionally, this is something I want to do with  Laplace because by aggregating content across these spaces, I can hopefully showing how they can be connected in the expert graph and connect the people in both spaces. 







