---
title: "NILS V2.0"
---

# NILS V2.0

Here is my preliminary notes and work on an update to [Nested Inter-Linkage Systems (NILS)](https://ledgerback.substack.com/p/ldcrc-roadmap-2020-21-nested-inter).

I will be writing V2.X updates in chunks rather than one finished essay.

Send your feedback to my [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CAdjovu) account.

---

# 2021-09-21

## Name

I am thinking of changing the name to **Networked-trust Cooperatives (NTCs)**.

---

# 2021-09-17

## Identity cooperatives

Two possible Identity cooperatives I have thought of are:

1. Reputation Feeds, and
2. Digital Twins.

I think a cooperative providing a DID or PDS technology or service can also be considered an identity cooperative.

### Reputation Feed
#### What is it?

- A cooperative that creates reputation feeds on entities for:
	- use by members in their own projects; 
	- representing members to third parties (trusted and untrusted) by creating reputation feeds with public and private sources on members; 
	- creating reputation feeds on members based on activity within the cooperative; or
	- clients that need reputation feeds or a specific assessment of an entity.
- The cooperative can be single- or multi-stakeholder

#### How does it work?

I expect that members will use a self-custodial account via a blockchain/Web3 wallet (possibly provided by the coop), verify their unique identity via Proof-of-Humanity or BrightID, to use the coop's OrgTech (e.g., Snapshot, GnosisSafe) for DAO management, and record assessments on-chain via the coop's DApp. 

The coop may also issue tasks to members on behalf of clients to create a client-specific reputation feed.

The feeds are portable so the cooperative can provide it via an API.

The reputation assessment system will be democratically created and managed by the cooperative. Additionally, the coop can provide a bridge between community reputation systems so that members from different communities can use their reputation in other communities, rather than having to build it all up again. Thus, allowing for intersectional social identity.

The members will also provide the coop access to their personal/off-chain information through a Personal Datastore (PDS), such as Polypoly cooperative's PDS, for limited purposes. 

If a third party asks for reputational information on a member, the cooperative can let them use a zero-knowledge proof (ZKP) DApp to see if the information is true or false.

The coop can possibly provide a portion of the client fee to members if their assessment is approved (and if multi-stakeholder, clients are also members).

Maybe accounting system for retroactive public goods?

#### References 

1. [A Prehistory of DAOs](https://gnosisguild.mirror.xyz/t4F5rItMw4-mlpLZf5JQhElbDfQ2JRVKAzEpanyxW1Q)
2. [Designing decentralized moderation](https://jaygraber.medium.com/designing-decentralized-moderation-a76430a8eab)
3. [Nested Inter-Linkage Systems (NILS)](https://ledgerback.substack.com/p/ldcrc-roadmap-2020-21-nested-inter)
4. [Inventories, Not Identities: Why multisigs are the future of online accounts](https://blog.gnosis.pm/inventories-not-identities-7da9a4ec5a3e)
5. [Sacred Capital](https://www.sacred.capital/reputation)
6. [Retroactive Public Goods Funding](https://medium.com/ethereum-optimism/retroactive-public-goods-funding-33c9b7d00f0c)

### Digital Twin
#### What is it?

- A cooperative that manages the digital twins of its members (e.g., voice, image)
- The cooperative can be single- or multi-stakeholder

##### How does it work?

I expect that members will use a self-custodial account via a blockchain/Web3 wallet (possibly provided by the coop) and verify their unique identity via Proof-of-Humanity or BrightID, to use the coop's OrgTech (e.g., Snapshot, GnosisSafe) for DAO management.

The coop will collect and redistribute revenue among its members based on the performance of the digital twins, and back issuance of social tokens. The coop will provide a token-gate to digital twins and police infringing uses of digital twins.

Additionally, the coop can make deals with third parties to license the use of digital twins across the metaverse, by possibly providing a digital twin API or DApp as a *lego*.

**`Still thinking about this one.`**

#### References 

1. [Nested Inter-Linkage Systems (NILS)](https://ledgerback.substack.com/p/ldcrc-roadmap-2020-21-nested-inter)
4. [Inventories, Not Identities: Why multisigs are the future of online accounts](https://blog.gnosis.pm/inventories-not-identities-7da9a4ec5a3e)
5. [Holly](https://holly.plus/)

---

# 2021-08-20
## Possible Outline


### Version: 0.2; 

#### Status: Seedling

##### Contents
-   Summary of update? (or just what got added)
-   Background? `will make this very short or just provide links`
	-   Describe DAOs ?(analogously to coops)? and OrgTech
	-   Web of trust
	-   Intersectional Social ID
	-   Local-first software?
	-   Multisigs
	-   Metaverse
	-   Web3 Wallets
	-   Universal Knowledge Graph
	-   CRDTs
	-   Coordinape and contribution-tracking mechanisms
	-   PDS (maybe like token-gated lock to data on IPFS?)
	-   token-gated locks
	-   IPFS
	-   ZKP
	-   Regenerative Economy
		-   Mutual credit
		-   UBI
		-   Payment splitting
		-   Rep feeds
		-   ...
	-   Why NILS
		-   Web2 problems
		-   Web3 problems (comm'y washing?)
-   Inspirations for V0.2
-   Describe V0.2 (redefine terms) (based on 3 entities)
	-   Individual 
		-   Self-custodial account
			-   DID
			-   PDS
	-   Local Coop (define ID coop)
		-   Ownership model: Coop
		-   Culture: quasi-cooperativism or digital cooperativism
		-   Tech: Web3
		-   Purpose:
		-   functions:
		-   Econ:
		-   Reputation:
	-   Global-Network/Metaverse (or just interactions)
		-   e.g., DAO-2-DAO
		-   jumping through Metaverse
-   Describe V0.2 benefit for individuals
-   Hypothetical NILS org
	-   Hypothetical Purpose: manages digital twins?
-   Projects related to NILS
	-    1 - 2 sentence description
	-    how they relate

--- 
# Directory

- [Main page](../_index.md)